Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP) Validator

Portions of this software was developed by employees of the National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST), an agency of the Federal Government.
Pursuant to title 17 United States Code Section 105, works of NIST employees are
not subject to copyright protection in the United States and are considered to
be in the public domain. Permission to freely use, copy, modify, and distribute
this software and its documentation without fee is hereby granted, provided that
this notice and disclaimer of warranty appears in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS' WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTY
THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL CONFORM TO SPECIFICATIONS, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND FREEDOM FROM
INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTY THAT THE DOCUMENTATION WILL CONFORM TO THE
SOFTWARE, OR ANY WARRANTY THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL BE ERROR FREE. IN NO EVENT
SHALL NIST BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, ARISING OUT OF, RESULTING FROM, OR
IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS SOFTWARE, WHETHER OR NOT BASED UPON WARRANTY,
CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, WHETHER OR NOT INJURY WAS SUSTAINED BY PERSONS OR
PROPERTY OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT LOSS WAS SUSTAINED FROM, OR AROSE OUT
OF THE RESULTS OF, OR USE OF, THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES PROVIDED HEREUNDER.

Distributions of NIST software should also include copyright and licensing
statements of any third-party software that are legally bundled with the code in
compliance with the conditions of those licenses.

Some portions of this software were developed by the MITRE Corporation and are
subject to the following license:

  Copyright (c) 2011, The MITRE Corporation
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
      and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of The MITRE Corporation nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      software without specific prior written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
  DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
  TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
  THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Additional 3rd-party libraries and source files utilized and packaged with this
software include:

+ The ISO Schematron XSLT implementation by Rick Jelliffe with assistance from
members of Schematron-love-in maillist. For more information , see 
http://www.schematron.com/implementation.html.

Copyright (c) 2000-2010 Rick Jelliffe and Academia Sinica Computing Center, Taiwan

 This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. 
 In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from 
 the use of this software.

 Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, 
 including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely,
 subject to the following restrictions:

 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
 that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, 
 an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is 
 not required.

 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be 
 misrepresented as being the original software.

 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution

+ W3C XML Schema documents and related files Copyright 2001-2009 (c) World
  Wide Web Consortium (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, European
  Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics, Keio University)

  http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231

+ W3C XML Digital Signature XML Schema Copyright 2001 The Internet Society and
  W3C (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche
  en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved.

  http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/

  This document is governed by the W3C Software License [1] as described
  in the FAQ [2].

  [1] http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720
  [2] http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/IPR-FAQ-20000620.html#DTD

+ This distribution includes software libraries developed by The Apache Software
  Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).

  - Under the Apache Software License, Version 2.0
    (https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0):

    commons-cli-1.3.1.jar
      
      Apache Commons CLI
      Copyright 2001-2015 The Apache Software Foundation

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      (http://www.apache.org/).

    commons-codec-1.9.jar

      Apache Commons Codec
      Copyright 2002-2013 The Apache Software Foundation

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      (http://www.apache.org/).
    
    commons-lang3-3.4.jar

      Apache Commons Lang
      Copyright 2001-2015 The Apache Software Foundation

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      (http://www.apache.org/).

      This product includes software from the Spring Framework, under the Apache
      License 2.0 (see: StringUtils.containsWhitespace())

    log4j-api-2.5.jar
    log4j-core-2.5.jar
    log4j-jul-2.5.jar

	  Apache Log4j
	  Copyright 1999-2016 Apache Software Foundation

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      (http://www.apache.org/).

      ResolverUtil.java
      Copyright 2005-2006 Tim Fennell

      Dumbster SMTP test server
      Copyright 2004 Jason Paul Kitchen

      TypeUtil.java
      Copyright 2002-2012 Ramnivas Laddad, Juergen Hoeller, Chris Beams

    xercesImpl-2.12.0.jar

      Apache Xerces Java
      Copyright 1999-2010 The Apache Software Foundation

      This product includes software developed at
      The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).

      Portions of this software were originally based on the following:
       - software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.
       - software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com.
       - voluntary contributions made by Paul Eng on behalf of the 
         Apache Software Foundation that were originally developed at iClick,
         Inc., software copyright (c) 1999.

    xml-apis-1.4.01.jar

      Apache XML Commons XML APIs
      Copyright 1999-2009 The Apache Software Foundation.

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      (http://www.apache.org/).

      Portions of this software were originally based on the following:
       - software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.
       - software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com.
       - software copyright (c) 2000 World Wide Web Consortium, http://www.w3.org

    xml-resolver-1.2.jar

	  Apache XML Commons Resolver
      Copyright 2006 The Apache Software Foundation.

      This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation
      http://www.apache.org/

      Portions of this code are derived from classes placed in the public domain
      by Arbortext on 10 Apr 2000. See:
      http://www.arbortext.com/customer_support/updates_and_technical_notes/catalogs/docs/README.htm

+ This distribution includes the JDOM 2 library, licensed under the following
  terms:

 Copyright (C) 2000-2012 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin.
 All rights reserved.
 
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
 
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows 
    these conditions in the documentation and/or other materials 
    provided with the distribution.

 3. The name "JDOM" must not be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without prior written permission.  For
    written permission, please contact <request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.
 
 4. Products derived from this software may not be called "JDOM", nor
    may "JDOM" appear in their name, without prior written permission
    from the JDOM Project Management <request_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.
 
 In addition, we request (but do not require) that you include in the 
 end-user documentation provided with the redistribution and/or in the 
 software itself an acknowledgement equivalent to the following:
     "This product includes software developed by the
      JDOM Project (http://www.jdom.org/)."
 Alternatively, the acknowledgment may be graphical using the logos 
 available at http://www.jdom.org/images/logos.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE JDOM AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT
 CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
 USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
 OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
 OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 SUCH DAMAGE.

 This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many 
 individuals on behalf of the JDOM Project and was originally 
 created by Jason Hunter <jhunter_AT_jdom_DOT_org> and
 Brett McLaughlin <brett_AT_jdom_DOT_org>.  For more information
 on the JDOM Project, please see <http://www.jdom.org/>. 

+ This distribution includes the Saxon 9.7 Home Edition.
  Copyright (c) 2015 Saxonica Limited.
  This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License,
  v. 2.0.
  If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can obtain one at
  http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
  This Source Code Form is "Incompatible With Secondary Licenses", as defined by
  the Mozilla Public License, v. 2.0.
